What is waterfall model..
This is the traditional s/w building practice 
1. Gather Requirements
2. Design the s/w (Architecture)
3. Implemntation (building s/w or coding)
4. Verification
5. Deployment
As the problem in this model is normally clients requirement gets change in almost everydays
And client have not get any idea regaring the s/w in the middle. after building whole s/w after that only 
client get to see the s/w. and if client requests for changes it gets difficult to change or it will get impact
to whole s/w even if for small changes.

What is Agile Methodology..?
It is a chain of rapid development and requirment

so here the 1st section of your s/w development is planning part.
Now we know what we are building . so we breakdown the application in small chunks of code. and we start building 
that chunks one at a time 
1. plan 
2. design (architecure)
3. develop
4. test
5. deploy
6. review
7. launch
Here suppose we start devide the whole s/w in small chunks and in 1st chunks we start working on login page.
so we plan then we design then we start devloping the page once complete we test it and then we deploy on the stage server
once we  deploy the code we inform client to se the updates. if he satisfied then we launch. if client need some changes 
we can easily make the changes then again we design -> develop -> test -> deploy -> review 
In this we dont launch the till the client satisfaction.
Once client satisfied then we use another chunk of s/w 
Likewise we work on iteration like 1st chunk 2nd chunk etc

Here the main benifits is 
- satisfy the client
- welcome change requirement
- delivered working s/w frequnetly

Implementation of Agile
there are muiltiple frameworks to implement agile.
like - scrum, kanban, lean, crystal, eXtreme Progarmming (XP)


What is Scrum...???
It is iterative philosophy.
So its iteration of plan , build,test and review as mentioned above.
So Scrum implemented team contain
1. Product Owner
You can think a product owner as a "Manager"  OR BA
he is the person who holds the responsiblility to deploy the application as an when commited.
and the application is build exactly the way it has to be built.
This is the person with the idea, he might not need a technical person, he might be a guy from managment
he does not necessary to now about the devlopment or other technality 
he is the guy with the idea and the owner of the application that would be develop.
so accountability lies on him.

2. Scrum Master
It might be same as team leader

3. Team 
which contain developer, tester

below are some terms in scrum

- Product Backlog

As i have mentioned we use iterative method and we divide whole project into smaller chunks.
for ex suppose we are building a s/w amazon.in
so, instead of building whole s/w we will divide this prokject in smaller chunks
so lets assume we divided into 3 parts 
1st frontend
2nd Email Notification
3rd payment
so in all parts we do all the phases like plan, design, develop,test & review
so all these 3 things are product backlogs
these are the things which are suppose to be done over a period of time.
so 1st thing we do to deploying a product backlog 
Product owner or scrum master will be responsible for creating product backlog

- User Stories

Once we have product backlogs then we have user stories
so this backlogs will now reffered to as user stories.
suppose 10 or 20 more backlogs same as i mentioned above like cart, login etc.
so scrum master or product owner would prioritize the user strories that we have
and depending on the priority has been set they come up with "Sprint backlog"

- Sprint Backlog
In this the development team is actually involve in this.
Now we have organise and prioritize user stories that you (Team) are supposed to working on.
so 10 different things are not dumped on you at the same time
you have given logical and resonable task that have to be executed one at a time

Once you have sprint backlog you actually start working on it

- Sprint Planning
 (this is the fancy name for meeting and discussion)
 in this product owner will expain how he imagine a end goal of this product or s/w will look like.

- Daily scrum (Daily Standup meeting)
It is the 15 mins meeting will happes on every day with developer, tester and any other members will have in the team
in this we discuss what hapand, where are we now, if we need any help, what we are going to today

- Sprint review 
this occure at the end of user stroy or the backlog you would be working on.
so each an every user story usually designed with the time line of 2 weeks in mind.
its may vary depending on company. it could be 2 to 4 weeks but mejority of cases each sprint will be of 2 weeks
 
- Burn Down Chat
depending on this graph scrum master or product owner will come to know how team is working on sprint
and whether team is working on time or not.

- velocity / story point
this is the no. how complex our user stories are. so scrum master or project owner will ask team 
and get the velocity  or stroy points of each user stories
depending on the complexity each team member will give a number 1 or 3 or 5 or 7 
higher the number more complex.
we can take muiltiple user stories in one sprint depending upon the story point. and each sprint will be of 7 to 14 days generally.

So here amazon the whole s/w or project is "EPIC"
In Product Backlog each task is called "User Stories"

